From fully polarimetric covariance matrix ARD format POL (Level-2a), it is possible to apply any version of the popular Yamaguchi methodology, which decomposes the polarimetric information under relative intensities of 4 scattering types: Odd bounce, Even bounce, Random (volume) and helix. [@fig:sar-pol-examples-fig1]b shows HH intensity of a RADARSAT fully polarimetric acquired over a Spanish area. Decomposition using Yamaguchi methodology [@yamaguchi2011] can be expressed in RGB colour composite ([@fig:sar-pol-examples-fig1]c) where Red channel refers to even bounce scattering like urban area; Green channel is random scattering like vegetation; and Blue channel is odd bounce scattering like bare soil. [@fig:sar-pol-examples-fig1]d is equivalent to c) where radiometric normalisation (terrain flattening) has been applied with the help of the DEM of the scene ([@fig:sar-pol-examples-fig1]a).

![Example of polarimetric decomposition generated from ARD covariance format. a) Shaded DEM of the area; b) RADARSAT-2 HH intensity; c) Yamaguchi decomposition colour composite (Red: even bounce, Green: random, Blue: odd bounce); d) Same as c) with terrain flattening option. Generated from Radarsat-2 FQ18W acquired over Murcia, Spain on 18 June 2014 - ©MDA 2014](assets/sar-pol-examples/pol-decomposition.jpeg){#fig:sar-pol-examples-fig1}

[@fig:sar-pol-examples-fig2] is a PRD compact polarimetric m-chi decomposition [@raney2012] simulated from two Canadian prairies Radarsat-2 fully polarimetric scenes acquired in May and June 2012. In May, before the growing season [@fig:sar-pol-examples-fig2]a, m-chi shows mainly surface scattering from bare soil (blue channel) and vegetation interaction from forested areas (green channel), while in June [@fig:sar-pol-examples-fig2]b growth of vegetation modifies the radar signal with interacting media function of the vegetation density and geometry which increase the amount of even bounce (red channel) and random scattering.

![m-chi decomposition colour composite of simulated compact polarimetry from Radarsat-2 over an agriculture area. RGB representation: Red: even bounce, Green: random, Blue: odd bounce. a) 3 May 2012; and b) 18 June 2012. Generated from Radarsat-2 FQ6W acquired over SMAPVEX12 campaign Manitoba, Canada on 3 May and 20 June 2012 - ©MDA 2012](assets/sar-pol-examples/m-chi-decomposition.jpeg){#fig:sar-pol-examples-fig2}
